# IoT-based-Vehicle-Safety-System
IoT based Vehicle Safety System

This is Product based project. An advanced security and system are designed for the safety of passengers and the driver. The proposed system makes good use of new technology that is based on Embedded Linux board namely Raspberry Pi 3 and its advanced feature of storing database at real time. The proposed design provides information regarding CNG leakage, alcohol consumption of the driver (if any), door, dickey and seat belt locks, Fog condition, Distance of vehicle from obstacles, drowsiness of driver. Information from various sensors that are interfaced, is collected by the raspberry pi3 by using different module and dispatched to the monitoring station where it stores the information in database and display it on graphical user interface (GUI) that is user friendly.


Firstly 16*4 LCD display is interfaced with raspberry pi3. 16*4 LCD display permits to display 4 lines with 16 characters in each line. All input sensor’s values are displayed on LCD. Raspberry pi3 will give signal to LCD. Then MQ3 (alcohol) gas sensor and MQ6 (CNG) gas sensor is used to detect alcohol consumed by the driver and compressed natural gas leakage in the vehicle respectively. Door lock, dickey lock and seat belts are detected by limit switches. Ultrasonic sensor is interfaced with raspberry pi3 to detect distance between vehicle and wall so that reverse parking can be easily done. Buzzer is interfaced with raspberry pi3 so that if any condition failed buzzer will give indication to driver. Once all the conditions are verified ignition of vehicle will start with the help of relay. Relay is acting as a switch to turn ON and OFF the vehicle ignition. Also, to monitor fog condition in running condition of vehicle LDR is interfaced with raspberry pi3. If low light is detected by LDR, raspberry pi3 will send signal from it’s GPIO pin and white light will automatically turn ON. Raspberry pi camera is interfaced with raspberry pi3 to detect drowsiness of driver. The raspi camera detect opening and closing of eye for drowsiness detection.
